# Traits

## General Traits:
These are background or genetic advantages a character possesses. The traits listed here are available to any character with GM approval. Each trait will be listed with a name, cost, and description; unless stated otherwise in the trait’s description a character may only take a trait once.
* Cantrip Caster(4) - requires an arcane trait. The character may cast an additional cantrip each round for the standard cost and effects.
* Danger Sense(4) - When turn based situation arises in which you are been surprised, and otherwise unable to act during the round, roll a d6; on a result of 2-5 you may act during the round at initiative 0, on a 6 you may act at your normal initiative.
* Fast Reflexes(1) - Gain +1 to your initiative. A character may take this trait multiple times
* Fulled by Pain(3) - Each time you suffer a stun or wound regain 3 stamina.
* Hardy(1) - Gain one point of resistance to illness and poison. A character may take this trait multiple times increasing its cost by one each time.
* Heightened Hearing(2) - Gain 2 bonus dice to all hearing based perception checks and 1 bonus die to perception checks that include but don’t specifically rely on hearing. This trait may be taken multiple times increasing its cost by one each time.
* Heightened Sight(3) - Gain 2 bonus dice to all sight based perception checks and 1 bonus die to perception checks that include but do not specifically rely on sight. This trait may be taken multiple times increasing its cost by one each time.
* Heightened Smell(1) - Gain 2 bonus dice to all smell or taste based perception checks and 1 bonus die to perception checks that include but don’t specifically rely on smell or taste. This trait may be taken multiple times increasing its cost by one each time.
* Large/small Size(2) - Increase or decrease the character’s size by 1. This trait may be taken multiple times increasing its cost by one each time.
* Left Handed(4) - Enemies not used to facing left handers suffer one point of parry bonus against your left handed melee attacks. Items specifically designed for right handers and may be more difficult for a left handed character to use.
* Long Arms(2) - Increase your reach by 1.
* Push the body(3) - At the beginning of any round or once per scene regain up to 5 stamina and recover from up to 1 stun at the cost of one fatigue.
* Savant(4) - Choose a secondary skill, when making skill checks double the rank of that skill.
* Quick draw (3) - At the beginning of round of combat you may take a ready or stow weapon action with a turn requirement of 0, additionally you may take a ready or stow action during your turn with a turn requirement of 0.
* Savant(6) - Choose one basic skill, when making a skill check treat that skill as if it is one rank higher; additionally if the skill’s rank is higher than the score of the associated attribute you may keep a number of dice equal to the skill’s rank (including the +1 from this trait) rather than the attribute’s score.
* Skilled(x) - Gain x skill points to use to increase the character’s base skills after initial skills have been assigned.

### Arcane Traits:
Any character may study magic but only those few who possess an arcane trait can shape and wield it. Arcane traits allow the character to craft magical effects and cast spells. A character may take only those arcane traits allowed by their strain, at the cost listed in the strain’s description.
* Dependent Mage - dependent mages have less arcane potential than other magic users and are unable to shape magic without consuming the alchemical substance, commonly known as, arcane essence. Dependent mages may not learn arcane theme secondary skills. Dependent mages may not spend skill or advancement points to gain new or increased ranks in arcane aptitude secondary skills but when they increase their rank in arcane aptitude they gain a number of bonus secondary skill ranks equal to their new rank in the base skill. Dependent mages may absorb more arcane essence than other characters; their bodies may absorb and store up to a number of doses equal to their body stat. A dependent mage may burn one dose of arcane essence in their system to reduce the effects of arcane dues by 1 wound, 3 fatigue, or 9 stamina; if the dose spent was the final dose in the mages system they suffer the normal effects of essence wearing off.
* Learned Mage - these mages have spent years studying, training, and enduring all manner of physical and mental trials in order to unlock their arcane potential. A learned mage must spend twice as many skill or advancement points to increase their rank in any arcane aptitude secondary skill. They may learn any arcane theme secondary skill that they have a teacher for and meet the theme's requirements.
* Natural Mage - natural mages do not require training or arcane essence in order to unlock their magical talents; the power is in the mage’s blood and is as natural to them as language or movement. Natural mages select a single arcane theme secondary skill when they take their first point in arcane aptitude, the mage must use their free secondary skill rank gained for their first rank in the base skill on this arcane theme. Natural mages may spend build or advancement points to learn magical effect secondary skills but may never increase their rank beyond one. Natural mages when determining arcane dues increase their body score by an amount equal to their rank in arcane aptitude when casting spells. A character may take this trait additional times in order to gain a second, or third etc., arcane theme secondary skill; if done the second arcane theme will gain its first rank when arcane aptitude increases to rank two, a third theme would gain its first rank when arcane aptitude is increased to rank three, etc.; each arcane theme that the character has at least one rank in will gain a rank each time the base skill is leveled up thereafter. Strains that have access to this will have two costs listed, the first is the cost of the first time this trait is taken and the second is the price for gaining additional arcane themes.

### Negative Traits:
Like general traits negative traits are available to any character, with GM approval. These traits bestow some penalty onto the character. Negative traits cost nothing and instead grant their price as additional trait points during character creation. It is recommended that GMs restrict the number of points worth of negative traits to 5.

* Age(1) - a character with this trait must choose to be too young or too old, either way the character will be treated differently than character’s in their prime.
* Amputee, arm(3) - the character has no off hand, is unable to perform actions that require the use of two hands, and receives two penalty dice to other actions normally performed two handed.
* Amputee, leg(5) - the character is missing a leg; they require a crutch or prosthetic to walk. When using a crutch they lose the use of a hand while moving. When wearing a prosthetic they may not dash or sprint. Additionally the character’s movement is halved and defense is reduced by 3.
* Anosmic(1) - the character cannot smell or taste, they automatically fail any perception based skill check relying on these senses and suffer two penalty dice to checks where these senses would help, but are not required, to succeed in the action.
* Blind, one eye(1) - the character suffers a penalty die to all vision based perception checks that benefit from a larger field of vision and three penalty dice to all perception checks that rely on depth perception.
* Blind(6) - the character automatically fails any vision based perception check, and does not add their perception score to their defense.
* Deaf(3) - a character with this trait fails any sound based perception check; additionally they must read lips to understand what others are saying.
* Fragile(3) - the character suffers one additional wound when they suffer at least one wound from physical damage.
* Hard of Hearing(1) - a character may take this trait up to twice; they suffer 2 penalty dice to all hearing based checks for each time they’ve taken this trait.
* Mute(1) - the character can not speak, they may only communicate with written or nonverbal languages.
* Portly(1) - this trait can be taken any number of times; for each time a character has taken this trait they suffer -1 stamina, they also receive one penalty die on all athletic or acrobatic skill checks for every time they’ve taken this trait beyond the first.
* Slow(1) - this trait may be taken any number of times; a character receives -1 to their movement attribute for each time they’ve taken this trait.
* Reduced Attribute(2) - this trait may be taken any number of times, each time it is taken choose a primary attribute and reduce its score by one.
* Weak eyes(2) - a character may take this trait up to twice; they suffer 2 penalty dice to all sight based checks for each time they’ve taken this trait.
